BUILDING INSTRUCTIONS FOR MS WINDOWS

PLEASE NOTE:
Before you begin. You should check out one of the desktop sub forums for any issues and workarounds, or to ask questions.
https://www.cerberus-x.com/community/categories/desktop-targets.70/

BASIC REQUIREMENTS:
A Powershell 5+ terminal.
A MinGW compiler.
NOTE: It is recommend to use the TDM compilers. They can be found at:
https://jmeubank.github.io/tdm-gcc/
https://www.cerberus-x.com/downloads/tdm-gcc-64.zip

THE IDE TED REQUIREMENTS:
A MS Visual Studio compiler from version 2017 onwards, with the workload for "Desktop development with C++" installed.
A Qt SDK installation with a Qt SDK kit from Qt5 onwards.

NOTES:
The IDE Ted requires Qt WebEngine. And depending on the Qt Kit to be used, it will, or may also require Qt WebEngineChannel and Qt Positioning.
To avoid issues building the IDE. Make sure that the Qt kit matches that of the Visual Studio. You can use a newer version of Visual Studio with
an older kit e.g Visual Studio 2022 with a Qt kit built with Visual Studio 2017, but it's best to match the kit with the Visual Stuido version being used.


BUILDING
There is a build script supplied in the Cerberus source directory called builder.ps1
This script has two modes of operation. When run without options; the default is to build all tools providing that the requirement above are met. The second mode is used to display a menu
where all the tools can be built individually. Selection between modes is determined by the -showmenu/-m option listed further down in these instructions.
./builder.ps1

NOTES: Before using the builder.ps1 script. Make sure that the execution policy for the current user be set to unrestricted.
To do this open a power shell as administrator and use:
    get-executionpolicy -list
    set-executionpolicy -scope currentuser unrestricted
If the file is still blocked use:
    unblock-file -path "full_path_to_this_script"
The execution policy should be set back to it's original state after using this script e.g.:
    set-executionpolicy -scope currentuser undefined

To build the IDE requires that there are Qt development files are available, as well as a MS Visual Studio MSVC present and installed correctly.
If not, then the menu entry for building the IDE Ted will not be shown and building all tools will exclude the building of the IDE Ted.
If there is an official Qt installer, then you can pass arguments to select it's root directory and a specific version.

If the builder.ps1 is ran from the same shell each time, eventually errors will occur when it comes to building Ted. This is a result of the builder script running the MSVC
command line script each time to set up the MSVC build environment.

Sometimes when using the deploy option. Creating an archive will inform that Ted is being used by another process and the archive may not be built correctly. This could be either
down to a security software, e.i. Antivirus scanning the file, or the windelployqt application not finishing first.

The optional arguments to pass to the builder.ps1 script are:
-q or -qtsdk with the full path to the Qt Installers directory. The default is C:\Qt
-k or -qtkit with the dot version number for a specific Qt SDK. The default is not set and will use the highest version installed.
-c or -mingw with the full path to the MinGW root directory. The default is C:\TD-GCC-64
-y or -vsver with the year version number of a Visual Studio installation. The default is not set and will use the highest version installed.
-i or -vsinstall with the full path to the MS Visual Studio Installer directory. The default is set the Microsoft Visual Studio Installer commonly found in the program files directory.
-m or -showmenu will run the script in menu mode.
-b or -msbuild will use msbuild to build all tools. Requires that Visual Studio be installed.
-s or -stdout is used for viewing output of commands after they have completed. Useful for checking build output.
-d or -deploy with the full path to where Cerberus will be built and an archive created. NOTE: This requires that git is installed and is only available in menu mode.

Executing the builder.ps1 script with no options set will use the default values as list above.


